A Survey of Reliability Issues	 of Wireless Communication in Intelligent 
Transportation Systems

Mohammad 	Ashrafuzzaman

CS520 Semester	 Project 2015
Computer Science, University of Idaho, 	Moscow, ID



Abstract

Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) provide advanced services to vehicles on the road in 
order to reduce accidents and increase positive experiences in transportation and traffic control.  
The central and the most critical technology in ITS is Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments 
(WAVE) that uses IEEE 802.11p based wireless communication, named Dedicated Short Range 
Communication (DSRC). DSRC 	is used to   transmit and receive different types of safety 
messages between the vehicles, and between vehicles and road-side infrastructures. The most 
important of these safety messages include Basic Safety Message (BSM) and Event-driven 
Safety Message (ESM). Researches in the last 20 years have established ITS's viability in 
improving traffic congestion and safety 	factors, and manufacturers are increasingly incorporating  
features of ITS in their vehicles.

Being a safety-critical, hence 	very much time-sensitive, application system, performance and 
reliability are of paramount   importance to ITS and by corollary to WAVE and DSRC. Being a 
wireless system, WAVE is  susceptible to general reliability issues in wireless communication 
systems, such as reliable   data delivery, media access control, and security issues. These issues  
become complicated in ITS,  as the wireless networks formed by the vehicles and infrastructures 
are of ad hoc topology (and hence appropriately named Vehicular ad hoc Network or VANET) 
and configuration of VANETs changes dynamically and depending of the traffic situation rather 
quickly. ITS introduces additional reliability issues like hidden and exposed terminal problem, 
non-saturated message arrival,   fading transmission channel, etc.

This paper will survey the   literature that addresses reliability and performance issues in wireless 
communication, i.e., in DSRC, WAVE and VANET, in ITS. This will investigate which of the 
issues have been addressed and under what conditions the experiments were conducted and their 
findings. Our survey will search for and identify scholarly papers on this topic, list those papers 
as references after establishing   how those papers deal with reliability issues in ITS. We intend to 
organize our paper by categorizing		 the reliability and general security issues and summarizing 
the related works for the appropriate		 category. Our investigation is aimed to provide an in-depth 
and accurate study of where the vehicular wireless communication stands in terms of 
guaranteeing reliable and secure services. We also aim to identify if there is a gap in the literature 
in studying any of the reliability or general 		security issues. 
